---
source_url: https://studienpraeses.univie.ac.at/en/nostrification/
last_updated: '2026-03-01'
country_scope: ["ALL"]
topic: nostrification
level: ["master"]
university: None
content_hash: 74eb3417
language: en
auto_update: true
related_docs:
  - nostrification/enic-naric-general.md
  - nostrification/school-certificate-bmb.md
---

# Nostrification at the University of Vienna
Nostrification is the recognition of a foreign university degree as equivalent to an Austrian university degree programme. It recognises the completion of a degree programme abroad as equal to a degree programme completed in Austria and grants the right to use the academic title awarded by the Austrian institution.
The point of contact for recognition and evaluation of university degrees completed abroad is
ENIC NARIC AUSTRIA
, the national information center for academic recognition matters.
At the University of Vienna, nostrification is only possible for study programmes that the University itself is offering.
### First contact for studies at the University of Vienna
Claudia Fritz-Larott
Office of the
Studienpräses
University of Vienna
1010 Vienna, Universitätsring 1
Tel.: + 43- 1-4277-12154
Fax: +43-1-4277-12159
E-mail:
nostrifizierung@univie.ac.at
- General information, advice and counselling on nostrification issues
- Information on the individual steps of the nostrification procedure
- Support for filing your application
Please contact Ms. Fritz-Larott by telephone or e-mail before filing your application.
/
- What does nostrification mean?Nostrification is the recognition of a foreign university degree as  equivalent to an Austrian university degree programme. Nostrification  recognises the completion of a degree programme abroad as equal to a  degree programme completed in Austria and grants the right to use the  academic title awarded by the Austrian institution.
- Is nostrification a prerequisite for admission to an advanced degree programme?No. Nostrification is not required – and as a result not acceptable - for admission to a diploma/master's programme, a doctoral programme or PhD programme. Detailed information about the admission procedure can be foundon the Teaching Affairs and Study Services website.
- Can all degrees of foreign universities be recognised in Austria?No. For filing a nostrification application written documentation is  needed stating that the applicant actually needs nostrification for the  purpose of working in his/her profession or continuing his/her education  (by submitting, for example, a letter issued by the Vienna Board of  Education (Stadtschulrat), the Austrian Bar Association (Rechtsanwaltskammer),  etc.). Evidence indicating a specific job position or a prospective job  is of no relevance for nostrification and will not be considered when  evaluating the application. Access for nationals of EU or EEA member  states to a number of professions requiring a university degree is  governed by separate directives that do not require nostrification.
- What is the legal framework of nostrification?The legal framework isSection 90 of the 2002 Universities Actas well asSection 20 of the Satzung der Universität Wien (Statutes of the University of Vienna), part of the statute onStudienrecht(study law).
- What are the legal regulations for using an academic degree?If a foreign academic title was nostrificated, the bearer is obliged to use the equivalent Austrian academic title instead.However, recordal of foreign academic titles in official documents is only possible if the title was conferred in EU/EEA-countries or Switzerland, as well as academic titles in the field of theology issued by papal universities.
- Can an application for nostrification be submitted to any Austrian university?No. A nostrification application can only be submitted to a university  where the degree programme corresponding to the studies completed abroad  is offered.
- Who decides on the nostrification application?TheStudienpräsesdecides on the nostrification. At the University of Vienna theStudienpräseswas established as the first instance pursuant to Section 19, para. 2,  point 2 of the Universities Act as a monocratic body for enforcing  degree programme-relevant provisions.
- Which proof and documents are required when applying for nostrification?1. Application form2. Birth certificate and other documents confirming a change of name (e.g.marriage certificate) if your previous name is used on the certificatessubmitted3. Proof of citizenship, passport4. Residence title (except EEA-citizen)5. Secondary-school leaving certificate or evidence of general universityentrance qualification6. Curriculum vitae (condensed, highlighting specifically the previous educationalbackground)7. Written documentation that the applicant actually needs nostrification for thepurpose of working in his/her profession or continuing his/her education inAustria (by submitting, for example, a letter issued by the Vienna Board ofEducation (Stadtschulrat), etc.)8. Document confirming that the foreign degree programme was completed9. Certificates of the exams passed and the academic theses approved10. Records of study10.1. Transcript (evidence of admission to a university abroad)10.2. Curriculum (documentation of the courses of the degree programmecompleted)11. Academic thesis11.1 Diploma thesis, master thesis or doctoral thesis11.2 A 10-page summary of each of them12. Payment receipt of nostrification fee (€ 150)A delivery address or an authorized representative for delivery in Austria is required. In the second case, confirmation from the authorized representative must be provided. The award certificate must be presented in its original form before the end of the procedure, while other documents can be presented either as originals or as certified copies. Certified translations must be provided for any foreign language documents.All foreign documents and all copies and translations made in a foreign country must additionally be legalised in the issuing country. Documents from the following countries are exempt from this legalisation requirement: Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, the Federal Republic of Germany, Finland, France, Hungary, Italy, Liechtenstein, Macedonia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia and Sweden.
- What costs does nostrification involve?At present, the nostrification fee is € 150 and has to be paid in  advance. It will be forfeited if the nostrification application is  rejected or withdrawn and cannot be refunded. If exams have to be taken  and/or academic theses have to be written, tuition fees will have to be  paid up to the time these requirements have been fully met (account  details: Raiffeisenlandesbank NÖ-Wien, IBAN AT083200000000675447;  indicate „Nostrifizierung ER 100000“ as the purpose of payment).
- Where do I have to apply for nostrification?The nostrification application has to be submitted to the university where the corresponding Austrian degree programme is offered. Simultaneous submission of the nostrification application - or submission after withdrawal of the initial application - to another university or higher education institution is not permissible. For the detailed degree programmes offered at the University of Vienna please go to:Degree programmes of the University of Vienna.
- What are the individual steps in the nostrification procedure?At the University of Vienna the Studienpräses initiates the  evaluation procedure after receipt of all the necessary documents.  Taking into account the curriculum applicable at the University of  Vienna at the time when the application is filed, the Studienpräses will  assess whether the studies completed abroad are, in terms of the result  of overall education, equivalent to the degree programme offered at the  University of Vienna. The criteria relevant in this evaluation are the  content, scope and requirements of the Austrian degree programme for the  completion of which the recognition of equivalence is sought. Random  checks of the applicant’s knowledge in the individual subjects or  modules are also admissible. If the qualification is basically  equivalent, but the qualification holder has to fulfil individual  additional requirements to obtain recognition, the qualification holder  will be requested, by way of an official notice, to take specific exams  and/or write an academic thesis. The official notice will specify an  appropriate period for fulfilling these additional requirements. During  this period the applicant is admitted to the University of Vienna as a  non-degree programme student.TheStudienpräsesgrants recognition by issuing an official notice of nostrification.The official notice states the Austrian degree programme to which the  foreign degree programme completed is equivalent and which Austrian  academic title the applicant will be entitled to use on the basis of the  nostrification instead of the foreign academic title.A note  indicating the issue of the official notice will be added to the  original document that was initially submitted as evidence of completion  of the foreign degree programme.oSpecial proceduresoProcedure for teacher training programmes
- Special proceduresSpecial procedures have been established for certain degree programmes completed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Italy, Liechtenstein, Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia and at pontifical universities. With these countries, specific agreements simplify the recognition of certain degree programmes. Please contactENIC NARIC AUSTRIA at the Austrian Federal Ministry of Women, Science and Research. Phone: (0043/1) 53408-290
- Special procedure for teacher training programmesThe nostrification of teacher training programmes is governed by regulations jointly issued by theAustrian Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economy(bmwfw), theFederal Ministry for Education and Women's Affairs(BMBF) and theVienna Board of Education(Stadtschulrat,SSR).Please click here for detailed guidelines.
- How long will the procedure take?Your application will be processed within three months. Any request to  provide additional documents or information will interrupt this  three-month period.